Authoring guidelines: general (#173)
codewars/docs: content/authoring/guidelines/index.md

next: /authoring/guidelines/description/
---

# Codewars Content Quality Guidelines

## Overview

> This set of pages contains guidelines for kata authors and translators to help them create kata, translations and kumite of sufficient quality, so the experience of working with them will be as good as possible for all Codewars users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This set of pages contains guidelines for kata authors and translators to help them create kata, translations and kumite which adhere to the community's quality standards.
```

> The guidelines should be used by kata authors, translators and reviewers to verify whether new content about to be introduced to Codewars is of sufficient quality. Conformance with them should be verified before a kata, translation, or kumite is published by its author and approved by a reviewer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The guidelines should be used by kata authors, translators and reviewers to verify whether new content about to be introduced to Codewars is of sufficient quality. Conformity to these guidelines is a prerequisite for publishing a kata, translation or kumite.
```

> All content provided by Codewars is created by the community, and for the community. No one else but the community itself can help the most to keep the quality good and constantly improve it. All Codewars users are encouraged to provide suggestions for improvements, report encountered issues, and fix them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Codewars content is created by the community and for the community. The community is the only mechanism for enforcing and elevating quality standards. All Codewars users are encouraged to provide suggestions for improving content and reporting or fixing issues.
```

> As the guidelines were introduced after a lot of kata had already been created, it's obvious that they may not be respected by existing kata and translations to the required extent. In such cases, beta kata and pending translations should be updated to improve their quality as much as possible before they get approved. Existing kata, on the other hand, can be approached in a more relaxed way. Obvious bugs and severe issues should be still fixed, but otherwise, guidelines can be applied gradually as the kata receives new translations, or as issues are raised and then fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the guidelines were introduced after many kata had been created, older kata may fail to meet the standard of quality. In such cases, beta kata and pending translations should be updated to improve their quality as much as possible before approval. Existing kata, on the other hand, can be approached in a more relaxed way. Obvious bugs and severe issues should be fixed, but otherwise, guidelines can be applied gradually as the kata receives new translations, or as issues are raised and fixed.
```

> Some of these guidelines do not apply to every type of content. There are code golf kata, puzzle kata, hackmes, debugging kata, and many other problems which are designed on the grounds of ignoring some of the guidelines. They should be used where applicable, and can be skipped when they are not. But this should not be treated as an excuse for taking shortcuts or skipping the necessary work: the fact that some of the guidelines are not relevant should be clearly visible from the task.

Reviewer: This point seems like a duplicate of https://github.com/codewars/docs/pull/173/files#diff-c3d7682bbb68fb86d29bb2b6b5adce5b6cefee4ab747253dcddc2237edb74c91R17 but maybe it bears repeating as part of the overview (it's certainly an important point!).

Author: Actually, I was considering to put such point only in "general" part, but when I was working on "coding guidelines" part I thought that it would be worth repeating it. Knowing how heated discussions over naming conventions, position of braces, and names of variables can be, my main goal was to make requirements for coding conventions somewhat softer, so users do not fight over "minor" things preventing a kata from being approved.

But maybe I just approached the issue in overly pessimistic way and such note in "general" part would be enough?

Reviewer: I can see it either way so I'll let other reviewers weigh in--I'm not sure what call to make here.

Author: I will leave this note for now. When all parts are finally merged and the guidelines can be seen as a whole, I will work on extracting common parts, removing redundancies, etc.

:::warning Important note

> Failure to comply with the guidelines should be considered an issue to be addressed and reported as such. In case of severe violations, the affected kata or translation may be retired, moved back to beta or rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failure to comply with the guidelines should be considered an issue to be addressed and reported. In case of severe violations, the affected kata or translation may be retired, moved back to beta or rejected.
```

> Authors and reviewers who repeatedly violate or ignore rules and as a result introduce bad quality content to the system can have their authoring or approval privileges revoked, and offending content can be withdrawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authors and reviewers who repeatedly violate or ignore rules and introduce poor-quality content to the system can have their authoring or approval privileges revoked and offending content withdrawn.
```

:::

> ## General Guidelins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## General Guidelines
```

- **Conform to quality guidelines when creating new content.** Do not take shortcuts, don't be lazy. Know what are quality requirements for kata, translations, descriptions, and code. Do not push your responsibility to reviewers.
- **When reviewing, verify conformance of the content with the quality guidelines.** Do not count on authors to get everything right.
- **Keep responsibility for all content you approved or created.** You should actively maintain all content you introduced into Codewars: fix issues, consider suggestions, answer questions.

> - Whenever possible, **improve any content of insufficient quality.** Fix any long standing bugs you find, remove the most annoying issues. Leave every kata you visit in better shape than you found it. It especially means that if the content created by you does not keep up to quality standards, others are allowed to improve it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Whenever possible, **improve any content of insufficient quality.** Fix any long-standing bugs you find, remove the most annoying issues. Leave every kata you visit in better shape than you found it. It especially means that if the content created by you does not keep up to quality standards, others are allowed to improve it.
```

> - Whenever possible, **improve any content of insufficient quality.** Fix any long-standing bugs you find, remove the most annoying issues. Leave every kata you visit in better shape than you found it. It especially means that if the content created by you does not keep up to quality standards, others are allowed to improve it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whenever possible, **improve any content of insufficient quality** by fixing bugs and identifying and addressing usability issues. Leave every kata you visit in better shape than you found it. Conversely, this means other users are allowed to improve your content.
```

next: /authoring/guidelines/description/
---

# Codewars Content Quality Guidelines

## Overview

> This set of pages contains guidelines for kata authors and translators to help them create kata, translations and kumite of sufficient quality, so experience of working with it will be as good as possible for all Codewars users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This set of pages contains guidelines for kata authors and translators to help them create kata, translations and kumite of sufficient quality, so the experience of working with them will be as good as possible for all Codewars users.
```

The guidelines should be used by kata authors, translators and reviewers to verify whether new content about to be introduced to Codewars is of sufficient quality. Conformance with them should be verified before a kata, translation, or kumite is published by its author and approved by a reviewer.

> All content provided by Codewars is created by community, and for community. No one else but community itself can help the most to keep the quality good and constantly improve it. All Codewars users are encouraged to provide suggestions for improvements, report encountered issues, and fix them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All content provided by Codewars is created by the community, and for the community. No one else but the community itself can help the most to keep the quality good and constantly improve it. All Codewars users are encouraged to provide suggestions for improvements, report encountered issues, and fix them.
```

> As the guidelines were introduced after a lot of kata had already been created, it's obvious that they may not be respected by existing kata and translations in the required extent. In such cases, beta kata and pending translations should be updated to improve their quality as much as possible before they get approved. Existing kata, on the other hand, can be approached in a more relaxed way. Obvious bugs and severe issues should be still fixed, but otherwise, guidelines can be applied gradually as kata receives new translations, or as issues are raised and then fixed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the guidelines were introduced after a lot of kata had already been created, it's obvious that they may not be respected by existing kata and translations to the required extent. In such cases, beta kata and pending translations should be updated to improve their quality as much as possible before they get approved. Existing kata, on the other hand, can be approached in a more relaxed way. Obvious bugs and severe issues should be still fixed, but otherwise, guidelines can be applied gradually as the kata receives new translations, or as issues are raised and then fixed.
```

> Some of these guidelines do not apply to every type of content. There are code golf kata, puzzle kata, hackmes, debugging kata, and many other problems which are designed on the grounds of ignoring some of the guidelines. They should be used where applicable, and can be skipped when they are not. But this should not be trated as an excuse for taking shortcuts or skipping the necessary work: the fact that some of the guidelines are not relevant should be clearly visible from the task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some of these guidelines do not apply to every type of content. There are code golf kata, puzzle kata, hackmes, debugging kata, and many other problems which are designed on the grounds of ignoring some of the guidelines. They should be used where applicable, and can be skipped when they are not. But this should not be treated as an excuse for taking shortcuts or skipping the necessary work: the fact that some of the guidelines are not relevant should be clearly visible from the task.
```

:::warning Important note
Failure to comply with the guidelines should be considered an issue to be addressed and reported as such. In case of severe violations, the affected kata or translation may be retired, moved back to beta or rejected.

Authors and reviewers who repeatedly violate or ignore rules and as a result introduce bad quality content to the system can have their authoring or approval privileges revoked, and offending content can be withdrawn.
:::

## General Guidelins

> - do your best, stick to guidelines specific to the type of created content (kata, translation, snippets, ...)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Do your best, stick to guidelines specific to the type of created content (kata, translation, snippets, ...)
```

- When reviewing, do it properly.

> - you keep responsibility for all content you approved or created. Fix issues, consider suggestions, answer questions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- You keep responsibility for all content you approved or created. Fix issues, consider suggestions, answer questions.
```

> - if your content does not keep up to quality standards, others are allowed to improve it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If your content does not keep up to quality standards, others are allowed to improve it
```

> - when in doubt, ask for help

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When in doubt, ask for help
```

> - easy tasks shold be of good quality too

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Easy tasks should be of good quality too
```
